Karthik, Charan - Using MongoDB

1. Create a Database Called ‘my_first_db’
> use my_first_db

2. Create students collection
> db.createCollection('students')

3. Create 5 students
> db.students.insert({name:’Steve Jobs’, home_state:'California', lucky_number:7, birthday:{month:2, day:24, year:1955 }})

> db.students.insert({name:’Jeff Bezos’, home_state:’Washington’, lucky_number:5, birthday:{month:1, day:12, year:1964 }})

> db.students.insert({name:’Bill Gates’, home_state:’Washington’, lucky_number:95, birthday:{month:10, day:28, year:1955 }})

> db.students.insert({name:’Steve Wozniak’, home_state:’California’, lucky_number:3, birthday:{month:8, day:11, year:1950 }})

> db.students.insert({name:’Larry Page’, home_state:’Michigan’, lucky_number:0, birthday:{month:3, day:26, year:1973 }})

4. Get all students
> db.students.find()

5. Retrieve all students who are from California (San Jose Dojo) or Washington (Seattle Dojo)
> db.students.find({$or:[{home_state:'California'},{home_state:'Washington'}]})

6. Get all students whose lucky number is greater than 3
> db.students.find({lucky_number:{$gt:3}}).pretty()

7. Get all students whose lucky number is less than or equal to 10
> db.students.find({lucky_number:{$lte:10}}).pretty()

8. Get all students whose lucky number is between 1 and 9 (inclusive)
> db.students.find({$and:[{lucky_number:{$gte:1}}, {lucky_number:{$lte:9}}]}).pretty()

9. Add a field to each student collection called ‘interests’ that is an array. It should contain the following entries: ‘coding’, ‘brunch’, ‘MongoDB’. DO THIS IN ONE OPERATION.
> db.students.update({}, {$set:{interests:['coding', 'brunch', 'MongoDB']}}, false, true)

10. Add some unique interests for each particular student into each of their interest arrays
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Steve Jobs'}, {$push: {interests:'fonts'}})
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Jeff Bezos'}, {$push:{interests:'space'}})
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Bill Gates'}, {$push:{interests:'malaria'}})
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Steve Wozniak'}, {$push:{interests:{$each:[‘books’, ‘computers', 'tech']}}})
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Larry Page'}, {$push:{interests:{$each:['AI','regulation','big money']}}})

11. Add the interest ‘taxes’ into someone’s interest array
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Jeff Bezos'}, {$push:{interests:'taxes'}})

12. Remove the ‘taxes’ interest you just added
> db.students.updateOne({name:"Jeff Bezos"}, {$pull: {interests: 'taxes'}})
OR
> db.students.updateOne({name:'Jeff Bezos'}, {$pop:{interests:1}})

13. Remove all students who are from California
> db.students.deleteMany({home_state:'California'})

14. Remove a student by name
> db.students.deleteOne({name:'Jeff Bezos'})

15. Remove a student whose lucky number is greater than 5 (JUST ONE)
> db.students.deleteOne({lucky_number:{$gt:5}})

16. Add a field to each student collection called ‘number_of_belts” and set it to 0
> db.students.updateMany({},{$set:{number_of_belts:0}})

17. Increment this field by 1 for all students in Washington (Seattle Dojo)
> db.students.updateMany({home_state:'Washington'}, {$inc:{number_of_belts: 1}})

18. Rename the ‘number_of_belts’ field to ‘belts_earned’
> db.students.updateMany({}, {$rename:{'number_of_belts':'belts_earned'}})

19. Remove the ‘lucky_number’ field
> db.students.updateMany({},[{$unset:['lucky_number']}])

20. Add a ‘updated_on’ field and set the value as the current date
> db.students.updateMany({},{$set:{updated_on:'temp'}})
> db.students.updateMany({}, {$currentDate:{updated_on: true}})